.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Aaron Bieber <aaron@bolddaemon.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 23 2019 $
.Dt BOXCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm boxctl
.Nd tool to manage remote
.Ox
machines
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm boxctl
.Op Fl fmnsv
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a
.Xr ksh 1
script designed to help manage
.Ox
machines.
It uses only tools contained in
.Ox
base.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h Ar host
Remote host to be managed.
.It Fl u Ar user
User to connect to
.Pa host
with.
Defaults to
.Pa root .
.It Fl f
Force installation of all packages.
This skipps the 'intelligent' diff mode.
.It Fl m
Run maintenance tasks.
This includes deleting unused dependencies using
.Xr pkg_delete 1 .
And installing / updating firmware using
.Xr fw_update 1 .
.It Fl n
Dry run.
This will only print the commands that will be run.
.It Fl s
Force
.Xr pkg_add 1
to run with '-Dsnap'.
This is useful when
.Ox
is in -beta.
.It Fl v
Increase verbosity.
More v's can be specified to increase information output.
The number of v's are passed to tools used by
.Nm .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width $CWD/packages
.It Pa $CWD/files
Is a ":" delimited index of source file, owner, group, mode and destination.
Each source will be copied to the specified destination, then chown/chmod will
be run with the values specified.
If this file does not exist, no files are copied.
.It Pa $CWD/services
An optional file that contains a list of services to enable on the remote
host.
If a service is already enabled, it will be restarted each run of
.Nm .
.It Pa $CWD/groups
A ":" delimited list of groups to be added to the remote host.
Entries should follow a "group:gid" pattern.
.It Pa $CWD/users
A ":" delimited list of users to be added to thhe remote host.
Entries should follow the pattern: "user:uid:gid:comment:home:shell:password".
The "comment" filed should not contain white space for the time being.
"password" is expected to be an encrypted string produced via
.Xr encrypt 1 .
.It Pa $CWD/packages
When this file exists,
.Nm
will install the packages contained therewithin on the remote host.
A list is cached on the remote host under /etc/packages.
This list (if it exists) will be compared using
.Xr diff 1
and only missing packages will be installed.
Package names should be listed by their fuzzy names.
See
.Xr pkg_info 1
for more information on fuzzy names.
.It Pa $CWD/commands
An optional file that contains a script that will be executed at the end of
the run.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr encrypt 1 ,
.Xr fw_update 1 ,
.Xr ksh 1 ,
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
.Xr pkg_delete 1 ,
.Xr pkg_info 1 ,
.Xr scp 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr chown 8 ,
.Xr rcctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The first version of
.Nm
was released in September of 2019.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Aaron Bieber Aq Mt aaron@bolddaemon.com .
